(SERENE MUSIC)
(WOMAN SPEAKS INAUDIBLY)
(SCREAMS)
I know you said you wanted to be
on your back
but how about we try all-fours?
I hate you!
Remember we talked
about how you'd hate me?
Yeah? OK, well, we're here now.
Hating me. You're hating me.
('WE ARE FAMILY' PLAYS)
Just breathe. Breathe, breathe.
Breathe, breathe.
That's it. Push, push, push!
That's it! That's the head!
That's the head!
(SCREAMS)
Have you got one more push?
I think you do! Come on!
(ROARS)
(BABY CRIES)
(GULL CRIES)
(PHONE RINGS FAINTLY)
(LOW-LEVEL CONVERSATION)
Jim.
You're not allowed to be in here.
And you're not allowed to be
eating those.
That was the last one!
Jim, what are you doing here?
That was my biscuit.
Mature.
Don't you have lives to save?
Yep. I've been awake for more hours
than I want to count.
Then, go home.
Well, I would
but I've got this other problem.
Is that your horrible ex-wife?
Yep.
I hate her. What's the problem?
Well, we bought this house together
but she still lives there
and we want to sell it.
Oh, that's right. You said you put up
a 'for sale' sign?
But she doesn't get
that when you sell a house,
people come through for inspections
and if the house doesn't look good,
you don't get a good price.
It's a simple equation.
Oh, well,
maybe numbers aren't her thing.
OK, let's do an exercise.
If she was standing in front of you
right now, what would you say to her?
I would say, "Grace, can you please
help us sell the house
"so we can get on with our lives?"
Jim, that is a reasonable request.
And I wish I could help you,
but you ate my biscuit.
(HALF-LAUGHS)
Look, I'm not asking you
to change the wallpaper.
Just make the place look
less like a bomb site.
Hey, if you want to pay
for a stylist...
I want you to do
what you said you'd do.
Hey, Laney.
Jimbo.
It's Laney
from St Brigid's Birthing Centre.
Just answer my texts.
Yes, I'll hold.
If you phrase them right...
Who's that?
Waiting for translator services.
Can we get
an emergency biscuit delivery?
That's not my top priority.
(LOW-LEVEL CONVERSATION)
(SIGHS)
Hello.
Hey. I'm the new midwife.
You mean student midwife?
Yes.
Max.
Grace.
Hi.
Hello.
Are you a paramedic?
Uh, should I be?
Are you?
Uh, no.
It's just, often, not to pigeonhole,
um, when we get a student midwife
who is not female,
they're what we call tourists.
They need their midwifery unit -
learn how to catch a baby -
so they can go off
and do something else.
This work is demanding.
People either love it and stay
or they get their hours done
and..."See ya."
And mostly with the men, it's...
"See ya."
Mmm.
Can't promise not to.
Well, we understand each other.
I'll be training you with the
expectation that you'll be moving on.
Right.
I can be strict.
I'm not trying to hurt you.
I'm just trying to teach you.
Uh-huh.
And don't be annoying.
OK.
And right now,
bring me cream biscuits.
Sure. What does that mean?
What do you think it means?
Like, literally cream...biscuits?
It's a test.
It's a test and you want to see
how well I can follow instructions.
And right now,
you want creamy biscuits.
Correct.
Creamy biscuits, coming up.
Creamy biscuits.
(DOOR CLOSES)
Hello. I'm Grace.
Hi.
Are you Sophia?
Yeah.
OK, great.
Uh, I'm one of the midwives here,
and am I right,
you would like to have your
birth here instead of Goulburn?
Yep.
OK, great. Take a seat.
So, you're moving up to the city
or...?
Uh, no.
I don't know.
I'm not...too sure yet.
Got your records with you?
Yeah.
Ultrasounds, blood tests...
Yep.
Have you worked here
for a long time?
Uh, the Birthing Centre
hasn't been here that long.
We're still pretty new.
Do you have any kids?
I don't, no.
And this is your first pregnancy?
I'm 17, so...
You've never had a baby?
And you are 37 weeks.
Have you been to birthing classes?
Yeah.
First babies are always late,
though.
Yeah, they often are but not always.
37 weeks is considered term, so...
(HALF-LAUGHS)
What is labour...like?
It's a really massive experience.
But you're gonna be fine.
Who's gonna be with you
for the birth?
I don't know.
Baby's father?
No.
Mum or Dad?
My mum's dead.
Oh. I'm sorry to hear that.
Well...that was my adoptive mother.
My birth mother's still alive.
Oh...
Sorry.
I'm so sorry.
I'm so sorry, I should've called...
No, no, stay... Stay.
Stay.
Just...give me...
Give me a second, OK?
I'm gonna be right back. OK?
(DOOR OPENS AND CLOSES)
(EXHALES)
(DOOR CLOSES)
Laney! Hey, I need you.
I need you.
OK, but I've only got a second.
There's, um... In there, there's a...
a young, um, girl.
Woman. Um...
I think if...if we go outside...
You and me?
No, the young, um...
What's wrong?
Biscuits.
(SIGHS) Jeez...
(DOOR CLOSES)
Um, when did you have a daughter?
I was 17.
I gave her up.
And she's here now?
Did you know she was coming?
No.
God. Why didn't you tell me
you had...
Hey, look, can you just...
Can you have a reaction later?
I'm sorry. Thank you, but I...
Grace, are you...
Yes, I'm fine. I'm fine.
I'd just like to have
a cup of tea with her.
You know, find out if...
What about your presentation
to the board?
Shit.
Oh, shit!
Um, we'll postpone it.
No.
You just have to tell them
I have gastro.
OK, Grace, they're here now.
It's the board. It's our funding.
Shit!
Oh, Sophia! I thought I'd lost you.
No, I just had to pee.
Sorry.
Oh, right.
Look, I know
I shouldn't have done this.
I should have gone through
the agency, the proper steps,
not just shown up like this
at your work.
It's not...
I have to give a presentation.
It's to the higher-ups.
I... I have to give it now...
It's so fine.
Don't... I'll go.
No, no, stay. I...
You should stay so we can talk and,
you know...if that's what you want.
Yeah.
You'll... You'll stay?
Great.
So, uh, as you all know, we, uh...
when we established
St Brigid's Birthing Centre,
we, uh, started this pilot study
and, um...
Ooh! Ooh, shit... Sorry.
Uh, and the results, the investment
that you made, is paying off.
Uh, so we paired midwives with women,
one-on-one,
for the duration
of their pregnancies,
so for, uh, all of the checks,
the ultrasounds, the blood tests...
Costs us a fortune, of course.
Mmm...
(HALF-LAUGHS) Yeah.
Yes, uh, well, it did cost
more at first, but, uh, it works.
Um... (SIGHS)
So, our... Whoops. Sorry.
Uh, busy day.
Uh, the...
Our test results show, um...
You know what, uh, in...
in the charts, everything is there.
All of the information.
Um, so if you just turn to that page
and on the next page
there is the, um...
all of the timelines for, uh,
the proposed expansion.
It's all there, so, yeah,
if you've got any questions,
just...yep, let me know.
Thank you.
Public speaking isn't...
isn't really her thing.
OK. Uh... I'll go over...
Grace.
I know.
What was that?
(SIGHS) I'm sorry.
I stuck my neck out for you!
I know.
(DING!)
I'm sorry, I've gotta go.
So, did you grow up in Sydney?
I did, yes. Yeah.
But I spent a long time away.
Overseas. In... In London.
Backpacking?
I lived there for a while.
Wow.
So, did that all happen
before or after me?
Well, it was after.
I was 17 when I had you...
Yeah.
Things were, um...
My life was very different back then.
Nothing like it is now.
If you have any questions, I could...
I could try and answer them...
Sorry, there's just a woman
waving at you.
I'm so sorry. Just give me
one second. I'll be right back, OK?
Yeah, yeah.
Hey, Renee, what's wrong?
My heart's beating really fast.
OK. OK.
Something's wrong, I know it.
Alright, well,
let's go and have a look.
Max?
Suite two's free.
Could you show Renee
to suite two, please.
MAX: Yeah, of course. Hi.
Alright, come on.
Uh, just around here.
Is she alright?
Yeah. Yeah.
Please, don't go.
Will you wait?
Yep.
OK.
(ULTRASOUND PULSES)
OK, all good. And what about Doug?
Do you want me to give him a call?
RENEE: No. No.
Max, would you mind seeing
if Laney needs help with anything?
(EXHALES)
Is everything alright with the baby?
Yeah. All the signs are normal.
Renee, you're in labour.
It's OK to feel stressed.
I just think something's wrong.
Nothing's wrong.
You're in great condition.
The baby's fine.
You've been calling quite often
the past couple of weeks.
Is everything OK?
Is it something with Doug?
He's been violent?
(CRIES)
Well, that didn't happen in one day.
Tell me what's been going on.
Are you in danger?
(CRIES)
Hey.
It's OK. You're safe. You're safe.
(CRIES)
I need you.
I've got another situation.
No. Please.
I do. It's serious.
I need to pee.
In two, we've got a woman in crisis.
Define 'crisis'.
Her husband's been hitting her.
(TOILET FLUSHES)
Who is this?
Renee. She's one of mine.
Her husband is the guy
with the guitars?
Doug. Yeah.
He's been abusive?
The dynamic with him
has always been...
He was a jerk.
Yeah.
She's left him.
If he sets foot in here,
I'm gonna kill him.
She doesn't have anywhere to go.
Her family's not here.
So, she's gonna need
some extra time here.
Yeah.
Yeah, we'll figure this out for her.
Thank you.
And...?
Your daughter?
(EXHALES) She's 17!
(EXHALES)
Oh... (HALF-LAUGHS)
(DOOR OPENS)
Grace, I need you, please.
Uh, can it wait two minutes?
No, it's Ying Yue.
Hey.
I'll make sure she doesn't leave.
Thank you.
Hey.
Uh, Grace won't be long.
OK.
Can I get you anything?
Um, my battery's
actually running out of charge.
Can I plug a charger in somewhere?
Sure.
There's a power point
just over there.
Thanks.
(CHARGER BLEEPS)
Uh, it's cheese and a bit of pickle.
Thought maybe you might need
some food.
I mean, you don't have to eat it.
I just threw it together.
I quite like it
as a tasty snack sandwich
but I'm not forcing you to have it.
(LAUGHS)
I'll just pop it here and...
if you feel like it, then have it.
(HALF-LAUGHS)
(EXHALES)
She'll be here soon.
It's a bit crazy today.
(WOMAN GRUNTS)
Uh, almost there now. That's it.
(WOMAN TRANSLATES)
How are we going there?
We've got the baby's head?
(WOMAN TRANSLATES)
All good?
Good here.
(PANTS)
OK, ready?
I'm gonna need you to push, OK?
On the next contraction,
push as hard as you can.
(WOMAN TRANSLATES)
Ready?
Push.
(YELPS)
Push. Push.
(SPEAKS OWN LANGUAGE)
She worried that she's going to die.
GRACE AND SASHA: No, no, no, no.
You're not going to die.
(SPEAKS OWN LANGUAGE)
(WOMAN TRANSLATES)
OK, I know it's hard, but your baby
needs to be born now, OK?
Squeeze my hand.
Breathe with me,
just like we practised, OK?
That's it. Slow down.
(EXHALES) That's it.
Again.
(EXHALES)
That's right.
(WHIMPERS)
Big breath in. (INHALES)
(EXHALES)
One more.
OK, on the next one,
we're gonna push. Ready?
(INHALES AND EXHALES)
Mmm...
Push, push, push.
Yes, yes, yes, yes.
(WAILS)
Yes, yes! So good!
Yes, yes, keep pushing, keep pushing!
Look, look, look, look!
Yes, look, look, look!
Here's your baby!
It's a little boy!
Here's your boy!
You did so well!
# Mister, your eyes
are full of hesitation
# Sure makes me wonder
# If you know what you're looking for
# Mmm, baby,
I want to keep my reputation
# I'm a sensation
# You try me once,
you'll beg for more
# Ohhhhhh
# Yes, sir, I can boogie... #
Push, push, push...
# But I need a certain song... #
(YOWLS)
# I can boogie, boogie-boogie
all night long
# Oh, yes, sir, I can boogie
# If you stay, you can't go wrong
# I can boogie
# Boogie-boogie all night long... #
(BEEP)
(SIGHS)
(SPLASH!)
Hoo...
(WHISPERS) Sorry...
Sorry.
Your water's broken.
No.
Uh, yes, your water's broken.
Come with me...
I just want to go outside.
Hey, I'm here. Uh, I'm here.
It's OK. You're alright.
It's fine...
We're experts at broken waters.
Sophia? Hey, look at me.
Look at me. You're gonna be OK.
Will you come with me?
You're in the right place.
Come on. I'll take that.
Just keep breathing, OK?
You're gonna be fine.
(VELCRO RIPS)
Sophia, who would you like me
to call?
No-one.
Max?
Hmm?
Can you...
Yeah.
Is there a reason you don't want me
to contact your dad?
Yeah.
It'd be really weird
if you called him.
I'll just call him when I'm ready.
Sure thing.
Let's scoot you up.
(PHONE RINGS)
It's her, isn't it?
Yep.
Hey.
Hey, Grace!
Hi, Bonnie.
Um, where are you?
Uh, just got home.
You know the, uh, first open house
is Saturday?
Oh, OK.
Is that what you were calling about?
Uh, no, it's, um...
My daughter.
Yeah. What about her?
She's here.
OK.
OK, but how did she find you?
I don't...
I don't know
but it wasn't through the system.
She just...turned up.
At your work?
Yeah.
She's gonna have a baby.
Oh, Grace.
Makes me think of...
Yeah.
(EXHALES)
Oh, god, Jim, my daughter's here.
I don't know what to do.
Sounds like you need to help her
have a baby.
(HALF-LAUGHS)
You're really practical, aren't you?
Be strong, OK?
Thank you.
Alright.
(EXHALES)
Grace.
If you've come to scold me again,
believe me, you don't have to.
What disappointed me
was not that you flaked out
when you went into a room
full of powerful people
to let them know you've been doing
excellent work
and they should give you
more funding...
I know it bombed.
No, no, no...
You know what disappointed me?
What?
You went into a room to ask for
money and forgot to ask for money.
What's going on?
Nothing.
You've got your furtive face on.
It's a... It's a situation.
I'm handling it.
You don't want me to know?
No, I don't.
Something is going on
but you don't want me to know?
Alright.
Good luck.
You're doing so well.
I know it hurts.
It's gonna feel better soon,
I promise, OK?
Should I push?
No, no, no. Not yet, not yet.
But soon?
It could be soon. It could be hours.
(PANTS) But my waters broke.
Yeah, that's just the beginning.
How much preparation have you had
for giving birth?
Bits.
Can I just...
You want to stand up?
Yeah.
Oooh...
Just keep walking.
Come in.
What, are you his boss?
He's the new guy.
It's my first day.
(GROANS)
What, this could go on for a while,
yeah?
Yeah, I'm afraid so.
You sure you don't want me
to call anyone?
No. I'm alright.
What about the baby's father?
He's nothing to do with it.
Well, I'm sure your dad
would want to know.
No.
Sophia, are you sure?
I think having someone...
God, look, I've said no
more than once. Is there a problem?
How about I leave you alone
for a bit?
Yeah.
If you get the urge to push or if
you need anything at all, just...
Yeah, the button. I know.
Max, why did you come in just now?
Laney told me to come find you.
Why?
Uh, she told me to tell you
that you're my supervisor
and you should stop making me
her problem.
What's going on?
That's Renee's husband, Doug.
(DOOR CLOSES)
Sasha!
SASHA: Yeah?
Call the police.
So, what's this guy done?
He's dangerous.
That's all you need to know.
There he is.
OK. I'll go around.
Hey, Doug! Hey, it's Grace!
Hey, can I just ask,
is the baby awake?
Yes.
OK. Then we shouldn't shout.
We don't want to distress her.
All good.
We're all good.
It's all good.
She left me.
I know.
She didn't want me to see her...
Yeah, I know, Doug,
but let's think about this, OK?
Now you're gonna get yourself
into trouble.
Look, you don't have a carrier
for the baby.
You can't just drive off
with a baby in the backseat.
I think if you stop now,
we can probably figure this out.
Are the police coming?
Yeah, they are.
Hey, you don't want to hurt
the baby.
No, I want to take my daughter home!
Hey, hey!
This is a new situation
for all of us, OK?
None of us wants to be a knob.
I don't want to be a knob. Max?
Definitely not.
No.
Doug, you don't want to be a knob,
do you?
I want everything
to go back to normal again.
Right. Well, I can't control that.
But, Doug, I can guarantee you,
if you're still holding the baby
when the cops gets here,
it's gonna be a lot worse
than if you just give her to me now.
She... She tried to take
the baby away from me.
Mate, it sucks. It sucks.
But what you're doing now, it's not
the way to get what you want.
Come on, mate, you know that.
No, no, no, Max,
you're gonna stay there.
You're just gonna stay right there.
Hey, Doug, I'd like to come forward
and take the baby.
You cool if I do that?
That's it. That's it.
That's it.
Oh, hello, miss.
I'm just gonna pass her over to Max
so he can have a hold.
(WHISPERS)
Just slowly walk back inside.
Do you have any idea
how fragile that new baby is?
You could have seriously hurt her!
And you have hurt Renee.
(TYRES SCREECH)
There are consequences for that,
mate.
Now, I could try and shield you
from those consequences
but I think that you need to
feel them.
POLICE OFFICER:
How are you going, mate?
And, Max, when I ask you to get
biscuits, get them yourself.
Roger that.
(BABY CRIES)
I've put in some calls.
Doug isn't getting back in here.
Thank you.
You're gonna get a visit
from a counsellor
and I've arranged a place for you
to stay when you leave.
And take this.
Just take it.
No, I can't take that...
Renee...
just for your own sake
and for the sake of the baby,
don't go back to him.
Well, I'm sorry,
I just don't buy a word of this...
I don't know what you want from me,
Diane.
She's already admitted
that something's happened.
OK, well, it's not my place
to tell you.
Well, has a woman been injured?
No!
A baby or something?
I can tell you that it's private.
Look...
Don't manhandle me.
Diane!
Sorry.
Leave Laney alone.
Then why don't you tell me
what's going on?
OK, fine. I give up.
You're gonna find out
sooner or later, so here it is.
The daughter I gave up for adoption
is here.
She's in this room.
Her name is Sophia.
And she is about to give birth
to a baby of her own.
And, no, I did not want you to know.
Mum, you're not going in there.
Alright.
Thank you.
Ready?
That's it. That's it.
(WATER SPLASHES)
Alright?
(AMBIENT MUSIC PLAYS)
That's it, nice and slow. No rush.
That's it. OK.
(EXHALES)
Is it easing up? Feeling better?
(PANTS)
It'll be over soon.
You're doing so well.
You're a champion.
(EXHALES)
It'll be over soon, I promise.
OK, take a deep breath.
Big, big, big, big breath.
Hold it. Hold it.
Push... That's it.
You're doing so, so well.
(PANTS)
You're a champion, Sophia.
Push, push.
(GRUNTS)
Push, push, push.
That's it. That's the head.
We've got the head, Sophia!
You've got this! That's the head!
That's the head! That's the head!
OK, take a breath, take a breath.
Breathe, breathe, breathe.
That's it.
(EXHALES)
It's OK. Look at me.
You want to push, OK, you can do it.
Yes, you can. You can.
Ready? You ready right now, OK?
(GASPS)
Big breath.
That's it, big breath, big breath.
Push, push, push, push, push, push,
push, push, push,
push, push, push, push!
WOMAN: You got it.
(EXCLAIMS)
That's it. That's it.
That's so good.
# People ask me why
I never find a place to stop... #
(PANTS)
# And settle down, down, down... #
# Yes, we were born, born
# Born to be alive
# Yes, we were born, born, born
# Time was on my side
When I was running down the street
# It was so fine, fine, fine
# A suitcase and an old guitar
# And something new to occupy
My mind, mind, mind
# Yes, we were born
Born... #
A girl.
2,970 grams.
Six pound nine ounces
in the old money.
Light dusting of hair.
Mother and baby doing well.
I did get permission to take this.
I know.
Thank you.
To you.
30-something Grand-nan...
Uh-uh! Not Nanna.
(LAUGHS)
Hey.
You never told me
you had a daughter.
That is for keeping secrets.
Well, only three people knew.
Oh, you, your mum, your ex.
Jim knew but I didn't?
I was married to him.
Yeah, I get it.
I love...
You know how much I love you, right?
(LAUGHS)
I love you too.
I'm glad you know now.
So, how about our new student
little handsome-faced midwife?
Pass or fail?
Pass.
So, what's his deal?
Married? Single? Gay?
What difference does it make?
I want to know what the options are.
(DEVICE RINGS)
Uh... I have to go.
I'm having sex with the executive.
He's never gonna leave his wife.
Oh, I bloody hope not.
I don't want him all to myself.
But he is fun to be in bed with.
Oh, um, I swiped right on a guy
for you.
What?
Don't be shocked.
I know your phone PIN.
It was, uh, before any of that
all your daughter stuff
and I forgot about it,
so, um, take him or leave him,
but I think that's him.
Laney!
No!
This isn't gonna go anywhere.
It's just, you know, a free glass
of wine's a free glass of wine.
You do have a nice smile.
You seem nice.
Can I tell you something,
stranger to stranger?
Sure.
17 years ago, I gave my baby away.
And, you know, I've lived my life.
I got married and I had this life
and it brought me here
but...today
my daughter came to find me...
and she gave birth.
(HALF-LAUGHS)
I decided this thing back then...
and today, here she is.
And it's...
It's been a major day of significance
that I did not expect to have
and I was not prepared for.
Yeah, so, anyway, that was my day.
Wow.
And so...
you're a grandmother?
(LAUGHS)
(LAUGHS) Yep.
I'm gonna go.
Uh, thank you again for the wine.
I hope you get sex tonight.
You probably will.
There's lots of midwives and nurses
that come here after work,
so you got good odds.
That sounds so intense.
Yeah.
My best friend works for
a non-profit in Jordan
but I know that's nothing like
what you're talking about.
It's all interlinked.
I'd like to hear more about this.
I have plenty of stories.
(SPEAKS SPANISH)
Did you spend time
in the Middle East?
Yeah, I did.
In Afghanistan and Syria.
As an aid worker?
Kind of, yeah.
What's a kind of aid worker?
I was a nurse.
For what organisation?
The Australian Army.
Oh.
Are you... You're going this way?
Uh, no, not yet.
OK. See you tomorrow.
See ya.
No! (GASPS)
Sorry.
Sorry, it's me. It's Grace.
You're at St Brigid's. You're OK.
Oh, sorry.
I was just having a dream
where I was trapped under a lift
and it was crushing me.
It's OK. (LAUGHS) You're safe.
I'm here.
(EXHALES)
Baby?
Yep, yep, she's great. Yep.
Thanks.
Oh, god...
Oh, um, they said I could go
when I woke up.
Right.
Will you go home to your dad?
No. Not right now.
Um... It's too late to go back
to Goulburn now.
Well, where will you go?
Friend of a friend.
She's got a share place
in this suburb called Bexley,
so I'll just, you know, call a taxi.
Oh, Sophia, if you want to stay here,
I can arrange for something...
No, no, no, no, no.
No, it's... It's so fine.
It's all good.
It's gonna be great.
Thank you, though.
I'm all good.
All good.
(RINGING TONE)
MAN: (ON PHONE) Hello?
Sophia, is that you?
(HANGS UP)
(EXHALES)
(CLOSES DOOR)
So, your room has a bed, obviously.
There's a bath.
This is just temporary, you know.
Space to...
Yeah. (CLOSES DOOR)
This isn't me trying
to be your mother.
No. I wouldn't advise that.
And, I mean, with the baby, I...
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know.
She's my responsibility, not yours.
(BABY CRIES)
I think this fits.
Yeah.
And, um, I've got some
special bedding for this as well.
Um... Uh, the sheets on your bed
are clean, I promise.
I know it doesn't look like it
but, um, I am actually getting
this place ready to sell.
Why are you selling?
Oh, you know... Marriage broke up.
End of an era kind of thing.
Here.
Do you mind, just for a second?
Yeah.
Thanks.
(GURGLES)
Oh...
(CRIES)
Ready?
Yep.
Hey.
Hey. Shh.
(GURGLES)
Shh.
Come on.
Thanks.
Shh. Come on.
(GURGLES)
Come on.
(EXHALES)
Grace's entire world...
My daughter, she's here!
..is in turmoil.
So, you're a grandmother?
(LAUGHS)
Now...
..all the lives... I'm her father!
..and loves of St. Bridgid's...
Thea's Dad wants to meet you.
I'm Grace.
..will spiral out of control...
I'm not keeping the baby.
..as they all face...
This baby's going to
another family.
Captioned by Ai-Media
ai-media.tv